once you hit as long as you can hi I'm
Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and welcome
to movie endings explain where we'll be
taking a look at some of the more
ambiguous and discussed movie endings
that left audiences debating their true
meaning long after the credits of roles
to kick things off here I thought we
tackle a less obvious choice but
nevertheless a film that had people
talking about its conclusion for months
following its release in 2012 The Dark
Knight Rises Christopher Nolan's epic
conclusion to the Dark Knight trilogy a
film that will always be slightly
overshadowed by the previous installment
but a great end to the series that
seemed to tie everything up nicely at
the end to save Gotham City Batman
slides a nuclear bomb out to see inside
the backs which unfortunately is missing
its autopilot function so in a
completely selfless act Batman
sacrifices himself to both save the day
and the entire city he dies in the blast
the people mourn his demise
Alfred cries it's very sad throughout
the movie Bruce Wayne begins a
relationship with a young cop named John
Blake who for some reason knows exactly
who he is right when I saw you I never
you really were anyway with his identity
out in the open with Blake Bruce decides
to take him under his wing someone by
the close of the movie following his
death Blake has left a package from
Wayne following coordinates left for him
by Bruce Blake ends up inside the
Batcave and in a moment of voting a
similar scene in Batman Begins he's
surrounded by backs meanwhile alfred is
having a quick drink at cafe in italy
when he looks over and sees none other
than Bruce Wayne it's a deep callback to
a scene earlier in the film when Alfred
said this to Bruce I had this fantasy
that I would look across the tables and
I'd see you there with a wife maybe a
couple of kids
you won't say anything to me normally to
you but we both know that you've made it
but you will happen so in a very fitting
end almost too fitting we see Bruce
alive and kicking chillin out at the
other end of the cafe letting the most
important man in his life he was
crippled with grief earlier that he is
in fact alive with a knowing not Alfred
returns the nods and leaves it's all
very cinematic but in a trilogy of films
that took the very outlandish idea of
Batman and put it into an ultra
realistic setting a lot of people didn't
buy this ending it was too neat too
perfect why wouldn't alfred rush over
some have suggested that it's Alfred's
dream an idealized vision of his earlier
wish to see Bruce alive I was a game and
happy and that nothing more needed to be
said they just know I can understand why
people didn't buy the ending especially
coming off of Nolan's previous film
which had an incredibly ambiguous finale
and trust me we'll get to that one
eventually
it's almost ingrained in us at this
point that Nolan's film should end with
some level of questioning what we're
being shown so was the ending of The
Dark Knight Rises really a dream for one
thing Selena Crowell is sat right next
to Bruce Alfred had no knowledge of the
relationship that had developed between
Bruce and selina so why would he imagine
it or even dream of it now I will
concede that the moment is very unlikely
after all could the publicly dead Bruce
Wayne really just walk into a cafe
unrecognized maybe he can in the world
of Batman Bruce Wayne is a billionaire
well-known in Gotham City but is he that
well recognized worldwide take a look at
this list of the richest billionaires in
the u.s. from this year besides Bill
Gates and Mark Zuckerberg would you
really be able to put a face to any of
the other names perhaps in Italy Bruce
Wayne could blend in perfectly but then
again he has to go to a lot of cafes on
that one River to be there at that exact
moment that Alfred was around but he is
Bruce Wayne and could have probably very
easily tracked out for his whereabouts
the final shot of the film sees Blake
discovering the inner mechanics of the
Batcave itself
presumably about to discover all the
gadgets and tools that Bruce utilized in
his time as the Caped Crusader this is
another talking point what happens to
Blake I think the answer is
clear-cut Blake would go on to become
Batman why well Bruce talks to Blake
earlier in the film about how Batman is
a symbol and the message of that symbol
is far greater than one man it's a
completely selfless life to live now
what really throws a wrench into the
works is this moment when Blake receives
the package left for him by Bruce after
he supposedly died you should use your
full name and I can't name Robin
Thanks so his real name is Robin yeah
Robin this has led people to theorize
that Blake would in fact become Robin or
Nightwing perhaps with Bruce returning
to the cowl down the line as we know
Nolan has no plans to ever make another
installment in his Batman series and
with the new Batman movies now rolling
out I think we can safely rule that
option out completely the intention was
never to make a follow-up movie with
Joseph gordon-levitt actually playing
Batman in a movie and I think the idea
of it is a little bit better than
actually seeing it play out on the
screen - and it's not like Batman has
always been Bruce Wayne there have been
numerous characters in the comic book
history who have donned the cowl such as
jean-paul Valley Dick Grayson Tim Drake
Jason Todd Damian Wayne Terry McGinnis
even James Gordon my theory is that
Nolan put that cute little line in there
as a nod to all the fans of the
character of Robin and a reference to
the biggest Batman character that he
didn't include in his trilogy if you
need any more convincing I think there's
a reason we see James Gordon marveling
as a newly reconstructed bat symbol at
the end of the film it's a signal of the
return of Batman and Bruce certainly
looks like he's moved on from that life
which is the whole idea of Alfred's wish
another tricky spot and this whole
ending though is the autopilot of the
bat it was noted that it wasn't figured
out yet and during the ending sequence
Lucius Fox is told that the autopilot
was actually fixed and programmed by
Bruce six months earlier obviously that
points to Bruce escaping the bat before
the explosion but the way this scene is
edited makes you think otherwise
he's literally pictured inside the bat
seconds before it blows up and even if
he did eject out of the bat how did he
get far enough away from the blast and
swim all the way back to the shore in a
Batman suit without being noticed the
only answer I have for this is a simple
one because he's Batman
now I'm very much of the opinion that
the audience can take away whatever they
like from the film so when it comes to
endings like this really it's up to you
there's no real right or wrong answer so
feel free to chime in on your thoughts
of this ending down below I'd love to
hear them before we close this thing out
though here are a few opinions from two
key players in this film first of all
Batman himself Christian Bale
he says I find it very interesting and
with most films I tend to say it's what
the audience thinks it is my personal
opinion no it was not a dream that was
for real and he was just delighted that
finally he had freed himself on the
privilege but ultimately the burden of
being Bruce Wayne so Christian Bale
isn't necessarily ruling out that it was
a dream but he has a very strong opinion
on it himself
then there's the director Christopher
Nolan he reasons this for me The Dark
Knight Rises is specifically and
definitely the end of the Batman story
as I wanted to tell it and the
open-ended nature of the film is simply
a very important schematic idea that we
wanted to get into the movie which is
that Batman is a symbol he can be
anybody and that was very important to
us not every Batman fan will necessarily
agree with that interpretation of the
philosophy of the character the only way
that I could find to make a credible
characterization of a guy transforming
himself into Batman is if it was as a
necessary symbol and he saw himself as a
catalyst for change and therefore it was
a temporary process maybe a five-year
plan that would be enforced for
symbolically encouraging the good of
Gotham to take back their city to meet
that mission to succeed it has to end so
this is the ending for me and as I say
the open-ended elements are all to do
with the thematic idea that Batman was
not important as a man he's more than
that
he's a symbol and the symbol lives on so
there you have it the ending of The Dark
Knight Rises was it real was it a dream
or was inception just still too fresh
and everyone's mind to accept this very
coincidental and far-fetched scenario is
the real ending and what happened to
John Blake did he become the new Batman
did he become the new Robin or did he
just become the new caretaker of the
Batcave before the real Batman returned
as always leave your thoughts down below
once again I've been Luke Bryan for Joe
Blow calm and thanks for watching
you
[Music]